---
layout: post
title: Migrating From Scriptogram
date: 27-10-27
---

I started up a blog this summer upon running across Scriptogram when shopping around after Posterous got nuked. I liked everything about Scriptogram. I keep my content, it was easy to get going, and it was free. Overall, I still really like Scriptogram but a few things were frustrating me. The first was that I could never get images to work. I tried on two non-consecutive occasions to get scriptogram to serve content from my public dropbox folder and it wouldn't work. In googling for an answer, I found Scriptogram seemed to not be very popular. That itself isn't a big deal, but when you can't find help it's frustrating. The second issue was less of an impediment but more concern. Scriptogram was getting slower and slower. It was taking a long time to synch my content between Scriptogram and my dropbox and it was also taking longer and longer to load my published content. Finally, I was concerned that something was going to change from either a cost perspective or a functionality perspective. When I started using Scriptogram it was a beta, I think it's out now, but I assumed something was going to change around them trying to monetize it. Nothing has changed yet, but I'm wondering if it has a future or not. I'm hopeful Scriptogram will do well for for now, it doesn't seem to be the best platform for me.

So in place of Scriptogram, I've decided to go with a site built with Jeykll and hosted on Github. I like the idea of using git an github to manage my content. Althought it took me most of a day filled with kid-based iteruptions I was able to get the github.io site running with Jekyll. I tried using Jekyllbootstrap but I ran into problems with it putting too much together for me to start with. Once I figured out that Jekyll had a basic setup utility I used that to get the basic site setup. I also wanted to learn a little bit about [Zurb Foundation 4](http://foundation.zurb.com/) for front end stuf.

